Overstocking, which is defined
as having more goods or supplies than what is needed,
increases the risk of damage, outdating,
contamination, and obsolescence of inventory items.
It also is an inefficient use of financial resources
by purchasing and storing more inventory than is required.
For this reason, end-of-year purchases
which cause overstocking of items, must be avoided.
Understocking creates the risk of unavailability of supplies
which affects the quality of patient care,
creates additional purchase costs,
such as overnight shipping,
and adversely affects trust users have in SEN staff.
At least quarterly, inventory managers
and functional area employees shall review inventory points
to ensure correct inventory quantities are on hand,
stock properly rotated, no expired product on hand,
and products stored at proper conditions.